So my name is Nathaniel Steeves,
and I'm a vice principal
at Birchmount School
and at Birchmount School.
We have a lot of fun
and engaging activities for our students,
but also for our community members.
One of those being the fall fair.
And this happens
once a year, in the fall.
And it's a great way for staff
to meet parents and guardians,
but it's also a great way for the
the guardians and, and parents to meet us
and put a face to our names.
It also allows the students
a little bit of of activity time,
where they also are engaging with staff
members who they might not be aware of.
And this is done through a scavenger hunt
that we put together.
And in that scavenger hunt, the students
and their parents or guardians
are going to different people
meeting the tech teacher,
meeting their face and teacher
based on the clues that they are given.
The Fall fair also includes games
and some prizes that the students
and parents can win through those games.
And we also include
culturally inclusive food.
So we make sure that dietary restrictions
are are taken account for.
The Fall Fair
came to be a few years ago
as a way to engage
the community and and bridge
the gap between home and school.
It's a great way as a new person,
as a new member of the school community,
to meet members of the school.
It creates that rapport.
So when you are calling home
or when you are in meetings with parents,
you've already met most of them.
And it allows for easier communication.
At virtual school, we also have
movie nights and the movie nights.
Are culturally responsive.
They, our community friendly.
They are kid friendly movies.
We allow, parents and their children
to bring pillows, blankets, cozy chairs.
This creates
a great environment for that.
It's also a cheaper option
than going to the movies.
This
came about again as a way
to involve the community members,
but also to bridge that gap
between home and school.
Also, we have bingo nights, that are,
that are held about every few months.
These are great ways
for some competitive fun
and activities for people of all ages.
All the students are invited, and
they're there with their family as well.
Again, another low cost activity
where people can win, win prizes.
We have staff members and sometimes
people in the home, in school
who call or making the calls,
So the overall benefits
to these, to these events
is that it builds stronger relationships.
It creates rapport with the families
and community.
It's also we're culturally inclusive,
and there's a sense of student
pride and motivation
with these activities as well.
If a school was looking to implement
some of these activities and events,
it's it's
great to have the support of, of a home
and school community or committee,
which helps relieve some of the,
the planning on the school's part
so that bond with the home and school.
The PSC certainly helps
to have community members
of volunteers who are able to come in
and get that started.
Most of these events, the fall
fairs, is quite a bit of planning,
but bingo nights and movie nights are
are pretty low.